---
title: 'Zihan Liu won the championship in Young Persons Lecture Competition (Hong Kong heat) 2023'
date: 2023-08-17
permalink: /posts/2012/08/blog-post-1/
tags:
  - cool posts
  - category1
  - category2
---

The Young Persons’ World Lecture Competition (YPWLC) covers the entire range of materials production and use, from the raw materials in the ground, through extraction, processing, research, manufacturing and final use. Young Scientists and Engineers in the fields of Materials, Minerals, Mining, Packaging, Clay Technology and Wood Science, Science and Engineering are highly encouraged to participate in the competition.

Headings are cool
======


As part of the competition, YPLC (Hong Kong heat) was held by IOM3 (the Institute of Materials, Minerals and Mining) on 17th August 2023. PhD student Zihan Liu (under the supervision of Dr Louis Wong) from the Department of Earth Sciences of HKU participated in the heat and won the championship (1st out of 9) in this competition, for a presentation on “How does thermal shock affect rocks?”. He will then represent Hong Kong to join the forthcoming YPWLC world final in November 2023.

Zihan presented his latest research on the thermal shock effects in rocks. When rocks experience rapid heating or cooling, temperature change-induced thermal deformation differs among adjacent mineral grains and thus creates intragranular and intergranular microcracks. Thermal shock sometimes changes the microstructure of rocks and thus permanently alters the physico-mechanical properties of rocks. Through theoretical and experimental investigation, the mechanical response of rocks under thermal shock loading and influencing factors of thermal shock can be comprehended. This research can further expand the knowledge of geotechnical engineering disciplines and promote the development of deep underground space and energy.


You can have many headings
======

Aren't headings cool?
------
